provider: Add jwt_issuer resource (#231)
cockroachdb/terraform-provider-cockroach: docs/resources/jwt_issuer.md

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cockroach_jwt_issuer Resource - terraform-provider-cockroach"

> subcategory: ""

Reviewer: Do we need a subcategory? I've never seen this type of generated reference in a PR before, so apologies if it's a silly question.

I know this is a generated file, so these suggestions apply to the source. It's just simpler for me to give them here.

Author: Looks like we don't have subcategories as of today - https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cockroachdb/cockroach/latest/docs.
Similarly, we don't have subcategories for the API Docs - https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/api/cloud/v1#overview.

We had discussed subcategories in the context of APIs, and had concluded to revisit it later, once we have logical grouping to categorize the endpoints (or resources in the case of Terraform).

description: |-
  Configuration to manage external JWT Issuers to access CockroachDB Cloud API via JWT.
---

# cockroach_jwt_issuer (Resource)

> Configuration to manage external JWT Issuers to access CockroachDB Cloud API via JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration to manage external Java Web Token (JWT) Issuers for authentication to the CockroachDB Cloud API.
```

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "cockroach_jwt_issuer" "example" {
  issuer_url = "https://accounts.google.com"
  audience   = "test_audience"
  jwks       = "{\"keys\":[{\"alg\":\"RS256\",\"e\":\"AQAB\",\"kid\":\"test_kid1\",\"kty\":\"RSA\",\"n\":\"09lq1lCEuteonwDJOhGTDak11ThplZuC9JEWQNdBnBSQwlkJQIE7A7nTBO0xTibcsh2HwYkC-N_Gs1jP4iwN3dRqnu5FwG2ct5mY8KLwJiHzToFC0MKenSFQCy0FviNtOnpiObcUlDvR2NDeNtMl_6SPzcQEt7GUTBBYZgoAxPmOgevki6ZNO6Y86xFqx3y6v8EPwW010AiC60r4AHGCTBhYF4uqmq5JH2UU4dDh9Udc-9LZxlSqPwJvnKDG2GjcnD8TsU3wjfEM_nRmx3dnXsrZUXYfNGtdv5dlHywf5AhkJmTavqcsJkgrNA-PNBghFMcCR816_kCIkCYWLWC5vQ\"}]}"
  claim      = "email"
  identity_map = [
    {
      token_identity = "token_identity"
      cc_identity    = "cc_identity"
    },
    {

>       token_identity = "(.*)"

Reviewer 2: Do we need the preceding slash in terraform/

      cc_identity    = "\\1@example.com"
    },
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

> - `audience` (String) The intended audience for consuming the JWT.

Reviewer: Is this how these are generally formatted? It wants to be a table or something more structured, I think. Kind of weird to have the type in parentheses in the prose.

Author: This is standard Terraform documentation rendering - https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cockroachdb/cockroach/latest/docs/resources/allow_list.

The descriptions are indeed in sync with the API field descriptions - https://github.com/cockroachlabs/managed-service/blob/master/console/apipb/api.proto#L3599.

- `issuer_url` (String) The URL of the server issuing JWTs.

### Optional

- `claim` (String) Used to identify the user from the external Identity Provider. Defaults to "sub".
- `identity_map` (Attributes List) A list of mappings to map the external token identity into CockroachDB Cloud. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--identity_map))
- `jwks` (String) A set of public keys (JWKS) used to verify the JWT.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the JWT Issuer resource.

<a id="nestedatt--identity_map"></a>
### Nested Schema for `identity_map`

Required:

> - `cc_identity` (String) Specifies how to map the fetched token identity to an identity in CockroachDB Cloud. In case of a regular expression for token_identity, this must contain a \1 placeholder for the matched content.

Reviewer: It would be great to show an example of a plain string and a regex, for this and the next item.

  identity_map = [
    {
      token_identity = "token_identity"
      cc_identity    = "cc_identity"
      is_regex       = false
    },
    {
      token_identity = "(.*)"
      cc_identity    = "\\1@example.com"
      is_regex       = true
    },
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `audience` (String) The intended audience for consuming the JWT.
- `issuer_url` (String) The URL of the server issuing JWTs.

### Optional

- `claim` (String) Used to identify the user from the external Identity Provider. Defaults to "sub".
- `identity_map` (Attributes List) A list of mappings to map the external token identity into CockroachDB Cloud. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--identity_map))
- `jwks` (String) A set of public keys (JWKS) used to verify the JWT.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the JWT Issuer resource.

<a id="nestedatt--identity_map"></a>
### Nested Schema for `identity_map`

Required:

- `cc_identity` (String) Specifies how to map the fetched token identity into CockroachDB Cloud.
- `token_identity` (String) Specifies how to fetch external identity from the token claim.

Optional:

> - `is_regex` (Boolean) Specifies whether the token_identity and cc_identity configurations are in regex format.

Reviewer 2: I realized that the is_regex is baked into the api so if we wanted to change that we'd probably want to do it in the api as well.   It seems like a good Idea to me but it may not be worth the effort.  What do you all think?

> - `is_regex` (Boolean) Specifies whether the token_identity and cc_identity configurations are in regex format.

Author: I agree that `is_regex` is redundant, but we could only do away with `token_identity` and `cc_identity`.

> - `is_regex` (Boolean) Specifies whether the token_identity and cc_identity configurations are in regex format.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I follow.  It's not currently redundant right?  It's necessary because we don't know if an identity should be interpreted as a string or a regex.  I'm suggesting instead of verifying it that way that we instead of different field names based on whether its a string or a regex.  Note that I've mixed the usages of these here so illustrate the additional power that it provides.  For example:

```
  identity_map = [
    {
      token_identity = "token_identity"
      cc_identity_pattern    = "\\1@example.com"
    },
    {
      token_identity_pattern = "(.*)"
      cc_identity    = "cc_identity"
    },
```

> - `is_regex` (Boolean) Specifies whether the token_identity and cc_identity configurations are in regex format.

Author: I see, got it.
However, it is possible to derive whether the input has a regex.
As it turns out, the identity map implementation within CRDB also works this way (without needing to specify whether it's a regex): https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/blob/master/pkg/sql/pgwire/identmap/ident_map.go

> - `is_regex` (Boolean) Specifies whether the token_identity and cc_identity configurations are in regex format.

Reviewer 2: oh I see, that is checking to see if the first token is a slash.  

> If the system-identity field starts with a slash, it will be interpreted as a regular expression

That seems like a better approach as long as a leading slash isn't a valid value for an identity.

> - `is_regex` (Boolean) Specifies whether the token_identity and cc_identity configurations are in regex format.

Author: Created a PR in managed-service for the same: https://github.com/cockroachlabs/managed-service/pull/18531
